>> Good morning.
Welcome to 9 a.m. Thursday at WWDC, the finest day at WWDC.
I'm excited to be here.
My name is David O'Rourke.
I'm the Engineering Manager for introducing Pod, for Podcast
Producer, but I'm here to talk to you to introduce it.
This is the tightest, funnest, and most concise
14 hour presentation you're going to attend
at WWDC and I want everyone to pay attention.
There will be two three-minute
bathroom breaks, and let's get going.
So the agenda's fairly straight-forward
this evening, or this morning.
I was up late.
Podcast is taking the world by storm for those of you
who haven't noticed or have been living under a rock.
A lot of podcasting going on.
We're going to talk a little bit about that and
set the context for this particular product.
We're going to talk about how podcasts are produced today
without this system that I'm going to be showing you later.
We're going to talk about what's built into Leopard Server
and Leopard Desktop that enables Podcast producing.
We're going to talk about a case study.
The case study's very interesting to me because it's
the canonical example that we've based the product on,
so walking through that has helped a lot of
customers and the engineering team stay focused
and tight on what the product should and shouldn't do.
We're going to go behind the scenes.
You're going to see some of the technology behind
Podcast Producer, understand how it's put together.
You know, how you can leverage that for your needs.
And this product is ripe with third-party opportunities.
There's a huge market.
This is the first release of this product.
A lot of people are going to be deploying
it so for the developers in the audience,
stay tuned to the latter part of the session.
We'll be going over the developer opportunities.
And lots of demos, and because
it's a video, they're really cool.
Podcasting is huge.
I ripped this slide off from my
manager's presentation on Monday.
They've redone the graphics but it's the same one.
This is phenomenal.
This is weekly downloads of podcasts up through 2006.
So, podcasting is clearly a media format
that's here to stay and the efficient,
and the need to efficiently produce
it, it's just off the charts.
So, where we stand today with podcasting is Apple,
the industry, other platforms, lesser platforms,
provide a wealth of tools to capture video.
We've got Final Cut Pro, we've got iMovie, we've
got Garage Band, we've got third-party utilities.
Creating and capturing video while still a
difficult concept is a fairly well understood problem
at this point in time, at least in my opinion.
And there's multiple ways to publish content.
You've got RSS feeds, you've got Apple TV, you've
got blogging, you've got QuickTime Streaming Server,
you've got DVD distribution, YouTube,
the new kid on the block.
Just phenomenal.
And people are consuming media any way they want.
They want it on their YouTube.
They want it on their phone.
They want it on their iPod.
You know, people all have different media delivery needs.
They want their media where they
want it and when they want it.
This is why podcasting is so useful.
So all the pieces of technology exist
today, so why do we need a product for this?
I can do all of this.
No problem.
I don't need Leopard or Tiger.
I can do this.
But, the challenge with all this is steps are mostly manual.
I've been in the industry 18 years and for the life of me,
I don't know how I would take a
video and get it up on a website.
I mean, I'm sure I could figure it out
but sitting down is a very daunting task.
All the technology's available but it requires someone even
as knowledgeable as myself to follow a very complex process.
You not only have to be an expert in iMovie,
you have to be an expert in blog technology.
So, from ingestion to publishing, it's very, very complex.
And processes like this are repeatable.
I mean, I might be able to do this for three or four
videos, but what if I needed to do this for 50 videos a day?
What if I needed to do it for 50 videos an houPr?
I mean, a manual process starts to break down
there and it really, really doesn't scale.
It requires an expertise with a diverse set of technologies.
You not only need to be an expert in video,
you need to be an expert in web technologies.
You need to be an expert in encoding technologies
with QuickTime, and what if my institution wants
to make sure all the videos are archived?
Well, do I add that as a manual checklist that
I hand out all the people doing this work?
I'd like some sort of guarantee that my
institution's standards and requirements are being met.
So, posting a Podcast Producer session, in my opinion
these days, is largely hand, a hand-built exercise.
We have all the tools but it requires a real craftsman and
a highly motivated craftsman to put the product together.
A bullet that I had from last year that a lot of people
thought was kind of fun is it's about as automated
as producing a car was prior to the Model T. So,
I mean, there were cars prior to the Model T,
but they were all hand-built and it required a craftsman.
The Model T was the first scalable
car that could be produced.
So, Leopard Server has Podcast Producer.
This Podcast Producer fully automates the process
of content ingestion and podcast production.
We provide all the tools you need to do this.
We provide remote camera capture and control.
We provide the ability to do direct file submission.
We provide work flows that can automate
and standardize a process.
We're going to go into that in detail in this
session and we're going to go into more detail
on the follow-on session, so stay in your seats.
We use standard server scaling technology.
If you want to scale this system out you scale it out the
same way you scale out your web servers, your file servers,
or however you scale in your data center.
We have administration tools that allow you to control,
manage, and monitor the system, and it's secure end to end
because if you're going to be capturing video you
don't want the students interrupting the lecture,
so you've gotta have security authentication
and authorization, and we provide all that.
So, what is a Podcast Producer system?
I mean, if I'm going to try to sell you one of
these things, what would I ask you to buy?
Well, it consists of the following components.
A set of cameras from which content can be captured.
We have one here on stage.
Later on, you'll see that this
camera's plugged into a Mac Mini.
This is a camera machine, headless Mac Mini
camera plugged in, a Podcast Producer clustered
to process the video, accept and process the video.
These are as many machines are your budget can afford.
Work flows to specify the standards and procedures that you
want your site to apply to every podcast that's produced
to the system or that's presented to the system, and
servers and storage to host and publish the content.
So, you've got your cameras on the front end.
These are headless machines with digital video,
with Firewire DV cameras plugged into them.
They will post video to a Podcast Producer cluster.
After it finishes processing video,
the Podcast Producer cluster posts it
to other machines which are hosting the video.
This is your web server.
This is your content management system.
This could be iTunes U. These other
systems are the hosting destination.
And then you have the consumers that
consume the content any way they want.
They may view it on an iMac.
They may view it in QuickTime through an email link.
They may view it on their iPod, or they may just
use iTunes, the iTunes application to play it back.
So, a case study, and this was the
scenario that was presented to us
when we were designing this system, is university lectures.
Stanford, Berkeley, a number of
institutions are starting to do daily, hourly.
They're capturing the lecture videos
and making them available later offline.
So this is a very hot topic.
A lot of growth.
Universities are a deal for this thing
because they're disseminators of information
and a lot of them want to make that public.
So, what should you do?
Well, deploy cameras in each of the lecture rooms.
Have a facilities guy go around and put them
behind plexiglass in each of your lecture rooms.
What is a camera again?
It's a Mac Mini with, or any headless computer
with a Firewire DV camera plugged into it.
Let the instructors remotely start and stop the camera.
If I was having a Podcast Producer system here in this room,
I need to be able to control the camera in the back of room
from this, from this podium machine up here.
I don't want to walk back there to start the camera.
I want to do it from up here.
And when the, and when finished, the lectures are
automatically submitted to the Podcast Producer system.
Work flows make them available to the students.
The work flows down sample the video
to whatever encodings you want.
High, medium, and low is the example here on
this slide but it doesn't have to be that way.
Audio's extracted for people that have an iPod Nano and
they can listen to the audio only version of the podcast.
Lectures are archived at the schools?
Xsan or life cycle management system for future
generations of students and they're automatically posted
to whatever web publishing architectures
you want to publish them to.
So, an example in action, a lecturer walks in and launches
the Podcast Capture application, logs in as himself,
picks a camera in the back of the room, says
Start, lectures for an hour, walks out of the room,
says Stop, and then walks out of the room.
The cameras automatically upload the
video to the Podcast Producer cluster.
It chews on the video for however long
it takes to chew on an hour's worth
of video based on the complexity of your work flow.
Chews on it, chews on it, chews on it.
It then publishes it to other servers
which will then host the final results.
Are we posting the high quality
digital video to these servers?
Not necessarily.
The work flow may have archived the source
material off and that will never leave the cluster.
The work flows are under your control.
And then students consume it through whatever mechanism they
have available and whatever mechanism you make available.
But that's a really sucky slide.
Nah, actually it's pretty good, but I'd like to bring
Nathan Spindel up here on stage and actually show it
to you because it's much more compelling.
Thank you.
( Applause )
>> Good morning.
I'm Nathan and I'm an engineer on the Podcast
Producer and Server Administration Team,
so what I'm going to demo is what
we did in Monday in Welcome
to Leopard Server session and go a little more in depth.
Ah, could we go to those slides?
And some of you may have recognized me from
Monday when I was dressed up as a professor.
So what I'm first going to show is as a professor how you'd
record a video podcast and then I'm going to switch hats
and show as a student how you would consume a podcast.
So, let's say this machine is our podium
lecture machine and at the back of the room,
we have a Mac Mini with a DV camera connected to it.
So, I walk up and I open up Podcast Capture, which is the
application for easily ingesting video into this system
and it's installed on both Leopard
Server and Leopard Desktop.
So I type in my log in and this integrates
with Open Directory so this is my campus log
in that I use for other services and I click Connect.
And here I'm presented with four
different kinds of podcasts I can make.
For now, we'll do video and we'll
come back to the others in a minute.
So once I click video I can choose
which camera I want to record from.
These are limited by access control lists and
as a professor I'm only limited to the rooms
that I wouldn't normally record in, and as you see,
we'll get a static preview that's updated every five
to ten seconds and the reason we don't do streaming
is because we want to do low bandwidth because a lot
of universities said they couldn't
support full streaming video.
And that hasn't updated yet, but we'll record a video now.
So we click the Record button and it counts down.
Never before has podcasting been this
easy for professors and students.
And then we just click Pause.
At this point, we can resume the recording
if we want, if we wanted to take a break
in the middle of the lecture, but we'll click Publish.
And so here are the last three pieces of information we need
to provide, the work flow, the title, and the description.
So, the work flow is a set of actions
that happen once the media files submitted
and these can be set up by your IT person.
So, as a Biology professor I'm only
allowed access to three work flows.
So I'll choose Human Anatomy.
The title is Foolproof Podcasting, Podcasting from WABC.
And at this point I clicked Done and I'm automatically
logged out of Podcast Capture and I can walk away.
We designed it with kiosk security
in mind because we found that a lot
of universities podium machines have kiosk
accounts, so a shared log in that everyone knows,
and we wanted to design Podcast Capture that when
it's deployed automatically has kiosk security.
So, as you know, when I click New Podcast, I'm asked again
for my user name and password, and this is mainly so that
if after a professor's done a student
can't go and upload naughty videos.
And also, note that in the Podcast Capture preferences
you can set automatic log in for a personal machine.
So these are the four types of podcasts we can make.
As we showed, we did video.
You can also do audio only for lecture
halls that don't have video facilities,
and the third is screen recording which is really fantastic.
It records a video of your Mac screen
and then sends that to your students.
This is great for full screen Keynote or PowerPoint
presentations and you can also do an audio track over it.
And finally, there's file upload.
If you already have a movie file like
a TV clip or something made in iMovie,
or something made in your existing professional
video system at your university, you can record that.
So, that's Podcast Capture in a
nutshell, and now I'm going to switch
over to the student account and
show how you can adjust the podcast.
So Podcast Producer's fantastic because it already
publishes to iTunes, it already publishes to iTunes U,
as well as the new blog on Leopard Server
which can also be subscribed to in iTunes,
and so students already know how to use iTunes on the iPod.
So in our student account, I'll launch mail that
up to see if we have a new podcast available.
Our work flow, our sample work flow already does
email notifications, so you see I've got a new podcast
from myself, which is a little
strange, but it says the title
of the podcast, the time, and a link to subscribe to it.
So, let's click on the iTunes U link.
Those of you who don't know, iITunes U is a free service
provided by Apple for high quality university content.
It's extremely popular.
Berkeley and Stanford are joined up with it and
there's a session later this afternoon on it.
So here's our Apple University iTunes U
and these are the nine courses available.
We'll click on Biology 202 which is the work flow I chose
earlier and you'll see here are the four podcasts available.
We haven't yet subscribed to this so I'll click
Subscribe and you can see it starts downloading
and now as a student, I'm subscribed to this podcast.
Whenever a new episode is available
it'll automatically be downloaded
and we can sync it with Apple TV, iPod, and soon the iPhone.
So, let's watch the video.
>> Never before has podcasting been
this easy for professors and students.
( Applause )
>> And as you saw, our sample work flow has a
beautiful intro and outro using Quartz Composer
and it's been watermarked with our university's
logo and as well as the titles where it was shown.
Let's look at it again just to see.
Note the reflections on the bottom.
>> Never before has podcasting been
this easy for professors and students.
>> And this video post processing is fully customizable
and we're going to talk about that later on in the session.
Back to you, David.
>> Thank you, Nathan.
( Applause )
>> Can we go back to the slide machine, please?
We have more demos.
They get better.
So, all of this offer that you
just saw is built in to Leopard.
You don't need to purchase anything other than
Leopard and you yourself can deploy this system.
So, Podcast Producer like Apple, all of Apple's things is
an integrated set of software and hardware and there's a set
of desktop software and there's a set of
server software that's been integrated
to work together in a seamless manner.
On the desktop, we have a new agent
that we call the pcast camera agent.
This is the process that remotely
listens for the Start and Stop command.
It's very similar to turning on
personal file sharing or SSH.
We have a podcast command line tool.
We have the Podcast Capture application.
The podcast command line tool can do anything the
Podcast Capture application can do, therefore, in fact,
the Podcast Capture application's just
a Cocoa wrapper on tool invocations.
We have a new Podcast Producer server
that I'll go into some detail later.
We, of course, have server administration, and we have a
wiki and blog server that's a built in destination
if you don't want to use our wiki and
blog server to host your content.
And we have work flows.
And we've added video commands to the command
line architecture of Mac OS X that allow you
to do basic work flow operations that are common for video.
We'll be going into that more later, and
publishing commands, and it's all based on Xgrid.
We leverage a lot of existing technologies
for Podcast Producer for your name
and password authentication that you saw Nathan use.
We use Open Directory, we use Server Administration.
If you want a scalable file system, we have Xsan.
We use Kerberos to authenticate the whole thing
end to end, and a lot of other server technologies.
So the desktop technology consists
of camera recording software.
The camera recording software uses the server
for authentication command and control.
The camera machine will not do anything without
the server's explicit written permission.
There's remote Start, Stop, and Pause.
You can up, the camera machines uploads the
finished videos to the server when it's done
and the camera machine's then ready for its next recording.
The camera can upload one video
while it's recording another.
This allows you to schedule back to back lectures,
so while the next lecture's being recorded,
the previous lecture's being uploaded.
We've designed and tested the system to
run on low end headless CPUs like Mac Minis
as an ideal and canonical camera deployment.
There's the podcast command line tool.
This offers complete control over Podcast Producer.
Some people who've seen this prior to Leopard have already
scripted chron jobs that like start a camera,
record for 15 minutes, then just do that every
15 minutes and submit to a security work flow.
So you can control cameras, work flows, job
submissions, and joining cameras to the servers,
so you can automate any action of the entire
system with some very simple shell scripting.
For those of you who have Leopard already installed on
your system, not that I want you to ignore my presentation,
but you can type Man pcast in the terminal
right now and you'll see a full man page.
And there's a Podcast Capture application which Nathan just
demonstrated, and this is the graphical front end for people
that don't know the command line for controlling the system.
Server technology.
There's a new server process running in MAC OS X server.
This server is the conductor or
coordinator of the entire system.
It keeps the camera database.
It keeps the work flow database.
It submits work flows to Xgrid and monitors their progress,
and it maintains security tokens for the entire system.
This is what keeps it secure and this is the command and
control infrastructure for the entire computer system.
We leveraged several Leopard server
technologies, web and blog content hosting, email,
you saw email being used for notification.
We used Xgrid for scheduling and work flow scale and you
can use Xsan or NFS for the shared file system for the grid
so that you can put all the video in
one place and not have to schlep it
across the network multiple times
as the work flows are working on it.
And we, of course, have full integration
with Leopard Server administration.
I think we have a demo of that later, do we not Kjell?
Yes, we do.
Thank you.
I want to take a slight aside and talk about Xgrid.
Xgrid is the heart of Podcast Producer and Xgrid
is Apple's large scale computing architecture.
For those of you who aren't familiar
with large scale computing,
perhaps you've heard of SETI@home
or Folding@Home.
Xgrid allows you to deploy your very own
distributive computing system in your lab.
Podcast Producer work flows are Xgrid jobs and this is
why we feel the system scales because you can add notes
to your Xgrid and do more jobs at once which
allows you to process 50 videos an hour.
Xgrid is built into Mac OS X desktop and server.
It can be used to schedule complex jobs across many CPUs.
As the jobs are run, Xgrid is dynamically figuring
out how many CPUs are required to complete this job
and if there's an idle CPU in the grid, it will say,
Ooh, there's someone out there I can go and grab.
I'll go put a job out on it.
So, parts of the job are farmed out to idle grid CPUs.
If none of the grid CPUs are idle, Xgrid
waits patiently for one of them to become idle
so that it can schedule the next part of the job.
This allows work flows to scale infinitely.
If you start with a four node cluster and it's
not quite processing the videos fast enough,
you can transparently add another four nodes,
bring them online, and without even shutting down,
the Podcast Producer system will start using
those idle CPUs on the very next job submission.
Podcast Producer work flows are Xgrid job descriptions.
How many people here are familiar with Xgrid, please?
If you know how to write and Xgrid job you
know how to write a Podcast Producer work flow,
so work flows are Xgrid job descriptions.
So, all Podcast Producer work flows inherently scale.
If you add more CPUs to the grid, your Podcast Producer
system can handle more videos being processed at once.
This allows you to scale the system
to meet your video demands.
As that chart showed earlier in the presentation,
the podcast downloads are going through the roof.
As your system, it's a system you buy today doesn't match
your needs you can incrementally add to the system later to,
as your podcasting takes off at your site.
Work flows.
These are another, these work hand in hand with
Xgrid and therefore are also the heart of the system.
Work flows are the heart of the Podcast Producer system.
They are simply scripts and descriptions
of what you want done with the video.
This is how you automate your processing.
Anything you can figure out how to code up in a shell
script could be very easily turned into a work flow,
therefore for your work flow processing
system you could conceive
of a UNIX shell script that would do all of the steps.
You can easily transcribe that into an Xgrid work
flow, install it on the Podcast Producer system
and now that's a new work flow for your particular site.
Work flows are Xgrid job templates.
They're really Xgrid jobs with the
filename left as an exercise for the reader.
You know, that's the part that the Podcast Producer system
provides only after the final video's been uploaded.
Xgrid jobs are simply scripts that decide
instead of command line tools to execute.
This is a sample work flow.
It's been grossly simplified because Xgrid job
templates are XML and that's a little hard to read,
so think of this as pseudo code, but in concept this
is what a work flow is, so I'm going to take in a movie
and I want to add a watermark to that movie, so I have an
addwatermark command in my script that says original movie,
mylogo, and outputs a watermark movie
that I'll use later in the work flow.
I then want to add my institutions introduction video and exit
video so I have a join movie command that we're providing
and it then allows me to concatenate multiple movies
together in the order specified here in the parameter list.
That will join an intro video, a watermark, the watermarked
movie that I made in the previous command and an exit video.
That produces full movie.
Now this is where the grid comes in.
I now encode that movie to four
different encodings simultaneously.
If I have four idle grid nodes on the system,
all four of there'll be executing in parallel.
If I have two, only two of them will be executing and the
next two will be waiting until the first one finishes.
So, all of these actions happen in parallel
on the grid when you write your work flow.
After I've encoded all the video, I'm going
to post the video to my various locations.
Again, none of these operations depend on
each other so they can be done in parallel.
If I have more grid nodes in the system and these commands
execute, the very next work flow's already being processed
on the grid, the work flow behind this one.
So the grid is constantly busy and constantly
being optimized to having all the machines in use
so that your videos get through
the system as fast as possible
Again, if your system's not big enough to handle
the load, adding Xgrid nodes will make it big enough
to handle the work flow load and
there's no need to buy a new system.
Filled out.
This is just a sample of some of the new command line
tools that are present in Leopard to support work flows.
The first column, we have editing.
We have a merge and join tool for
merging and joining QuickTime movies.
We have a titling tool to allow you to add titles to movies.
We have a watermarking tool that lets you add watermarks.
QC Effects we'll be going into
later and in the following demo.
We can trim and split the movie.
What if you want to trim 10 seconds
off the front and the back?
We have an extract and a track.
For those of you who are not familiar with QuickTime
everything's a track so we have track manipulation tools
since everything being processed
through the system is QuickTime.
We can delete a track and we can add a track.
Perhaps you want to add a secondary
audio track to your videos.
You can do that in a work flow
simply with the Add Track command.
We have encoding tools, adding QuickTime annotations, set
the poster frame, encode for a particular destination, iPod,
Apple TV, 3GPP, extract the track so that I
can add it to another movie and delete a track.
Delete track's been duplicated there.
Publishing.
I can publish to the group blog, I can publish to
QuickTime streaming server, I can publish to iTunes U,
I can send an email notification, and
I can publish to an iTunes podcast.
These are the commands we provide.
You can write your own shell scripts or your own
command line tools to extend any one of these aspects.
These are just what we're providing for you.
And then we have some utilities, a pre-flight
utility, a post-flight utility, archive, and copy.
So these are just some of the command line tools that've
been added to Leopard to make work flows more easy.
So let's go over the process again.
So the professor submits a work flow to the
Podcast Producer system, it receives the video,
and after it's done receiving all the video it queues it
to Xgrid using the Podcast Producer
work flow running on an Xgrid cluster.
The Xgrid cluster chews on the video.
While it's chewing on it it'll add transitions,
watermarks, an intro and exit video,
might do some text to speech or
anything else you want it to do.
Video encoding.
It will then encode the video to as
many different outputs as you want.
If you don't want to do video encoding
don't make it part of your work flow.
If you do, you can add as many encodings as you like.
After we're done with that, the typical result
would be to copy and publish the results
to other servers on your network or out on the Internet.
Again, you encode these steps into the
work flow and once they've been published,
your customers can now consume the
data by downloading the results
or watching the stream from the servers you've published to.
I'd like to bring Kjell Bronder up on stage
right now that's going to give you a little bit
of a behind the scenes look at Server Admin
and I believe go through a brief demo.
Thank you, Kjell.
( Applause )
>> Demo, Demo 2 or Demo 3?
>> Let's start over here.
So, as they said I'm Kjell Bronder, I'm an engineer on
the Podcast Producer team and so Nathan went over more
about the end case, the user use case scenario so
I'm going to take you a little bit behind the scenes
and show you how to administer the Podcast Producer.
So I'm going to log out here the student account
and we're going to log in as the podcast admin.
So, for most services that any administrator
has to set up, you're usually, use Server Admin
and we're going to use Server Admin for Podcast Producer.
What a surprise.
And so here we're going to connect to
our rack over here and you can see
that for Podcast Producer before I even start talking
about the Podcast Producer service
there're several other services,
underlying services that Podcast
Producer needs to actually run.
So we're running an open dir, we're running
some open directory servers over here
so we have an open directory master and a replica.
We're running a web server and a
mail server and we're running Xgrid.
As David said, Xgrid is the engine behind Podcast Producer.
So let me just cheat here real quick.
So this is where I was supposed to have a joke.
( Typing )
And did that work?
So we're going to, so we're going to refresh here.
Let me try it one more time.
There we go.
So we have the Podcast Producer service here.
The overview pane, we get some status about the
different cameras that are bound to the server
so these are the remote cameras like the Mac,
the camera that's bound here to the Mac Mini.
We have some information here about
the Xgrid and the shared file system.
So I'm going to jump straight here into the settings.
So there's a shared file system.
This is the file system that the Xgrid nodes use
to store the media that they'll be processing,
so all the nodes have to be able to access
the movies if they want to actually process it.
So this is typically the SAN
that we have over here in our rack.
Then we have the information about our Xgrids.
We have to point Podcast Producer to an Xgrid controller
and we give it the user name to
exit that it executes the jobs as.
So that's all you need to start your Podcast Producer.
Once you've filled in these three different
things, you can start your Podcast Producer.
Now if we jump over here to properties, the idea behind
properties is that you might have some information
that is site specific that you want to apply to all of your
podcasts, so the typical example here is your watermark.
You're probably going to want to watermark all your
podcast from your site with this same image.
So what, so how you could do that is
you go down here to the watermark image.
Can we see that in the back?
So you have your watermark image here and you can set
your watermark image to your school's logo or site's logo
and if it changes all you have to do
is you go in here and you change it.
So, if you saw in Nathan's demo the transition between the
intro video and the main video and then the outro video,
it was a swing transition and this is using Quartz Composer.
And we support, the new feature that Quartz Composer has
in Leopard which is the repository and repository IDs
so it's very easy for me here to go and
change what kind of transition I'll be using,
so I can just change the swing
transition to let's say cube transition.
So here, I just use the repository ID and I'll type in Cube.
I'll save this and now my Podcast Producer will use
the cube transition instead of the swing transition.
So let me show you how that works.
I'm going to switch over here to, ah, it didn't stick.
Sorry. There we go.
So let me go over here to the professor machine
and this time we'll do a screen recording.
So I'll click here on the screen and we'll choose
the line in hooked up with our microphones here
and I can bring up a little Keynote that I have here.
I'll prep this, so here I can just hit Record here
or I can actually use the hotkey so if I was actually
in Keynote all I have to do is hit the hotkey so Command F2.
And here we can play, so I can walk
through the different slides here.
So this is just some demo slides that
we have here for you about the brain.
You'll see in the next demo I'll have
some, we'll talk, we'll talk over these.
So, now that I'm done I can just
stop it with the hotkey also.
So, it went a little bit long there.
So now that this is done, like I did
before, I'm just going to click Done here.
I'm going to choose the same work flow
that we did before, so Human Anatomy.
And this was The Structure of the Brain.
This was screen capture and let me submit that.
So that, now I'm being uploaded
to the Podcast Producer server.
You should be seeing some blue lights flickering over there
and while that's processing I'm going to go back over here
to the admin machine and I'm going to
show you some other things.
So I'm going to switch back here.
So here, we saw the general settings.
Here is where, there's another tab
here for the work flows so this is
where the admin can administer the different work flows.
So we can set different, we can set different access
controls on the work flows so as you saw here,
the admin machine, we only had the Biology work
flows because I logged in as a Biology teacher
and as a Biology teacher I can only see those podcasts.
So I can set the access down
here and why isn't it... there we go.
So, there we go.
So here, I have all the different, so these are all
the different work flows that are actually available
on the server but you saw that when I logged in with
Podcast Capture I could only see three of them and that's
because you see down, you see here only the
Biology professors have access to these work flows.
I can go over here to cameras, so cameras is the
cameras that are actually bound to the Podcast Producer.
So, Pacific Heights, this is this camera
that's bound here using the headless Mac Mini
and is bound to the Podcast Producer over there.
So we can see when it was last used by so this was when
Nathan did his demo and we can also set access controls
for the cameras so you could say that
only the Biology teachers have access
to the cameras in the Biology buildings.
So that's the, that's the quick overview of Server Admin.
I'm going to show you two other little things here.
So now that I have my, can we see that in the back here?
So Davo mentioned the pcast command line
tool so I'll just show that command pcast works.
The Podcast capture app wraps this
command line tool so anything you can do
with the capture app you can write
a command line that will do it.
We'll go more into detail in the
next presentation about this.
So you can list the cameras.
You can start it some, you can start a recording, you can
submit anything that the Podcast Capture app you can do,
you can do it through the command line tool.
And if you want to have a little look even more under the
engine and see what's happening, we have Xgrid Admin.
So Xgrid Admin will let me log in to the grid
that I have running over here and I will sign
on using my Kerberos credentials and I
can see here that my job did not get submitted.
So this was the jobs that ran on the Podcast Producer system
and I can get the status while they're
running and I can see where they are at.
So that's it for the Server Admin demo
and I'll hand it off back to Dave.
>> Thank you.
( Applause )
>> So, back to the slide machine, please.
Thank you.
So I'm hoping you're getting a feeling here that
Podcast Producer is actually as much as you need.
You can have a small system or you can have
a large system simply by using the grid.
So we've designed it to be modular and scalar
so that you can actually customize the
system to your exact processing requirements.
So using technologies like Xgrid and Xsan, you can
build clusters of CPUs that offer greater performance.
Scaling your system is therefore just as easy as
adding another CPU to the rack or should you run
out of disk space processing all this video,
adding a hard drive to your Xsan file system.
Architecturally, Podcast Producer can run on a
single CPU or as our rack demonstrates over here,
you can actually divvy up the functionality
and have a dedicated CPU
for each particular element of Podcast Producer.
So, a simple Podcast Producer deployment
might look like this, one camera,
one computer, one RAID box, lots of customers.
That would be for someone maybe
processing two or three videos a day.
A more complex Podcast Producer system might be multiple
cameras, a dedicated cluster for processing the video,
and a different cluster for hosting all of the results.
Again, consumed by all the customers using the same
software and same technologies, the simple system deployed.
The ideal Podcast Producer system and the one we
recommend is the minimum system, looks like this.
( Laughter )
But you can scale it and it can be deployed this large.
If you stay for the next session you'll see a,
actually a system that dwarfs this being discussed.
Stay tuned.
So, Podcast Producer's an "open" system.
It can be customized to meet your needs.
Because work flows, are Xgrid jobs they
can be composed using any text editor.
If you like BBEdit, use BBEdit
If you like vi or Emacs, there is no
custom work flow editor required.
They're just a shell script.
We leverage Mac OS X technologies like QuickTime
and Quartz Composer to do all the image processing.
So these are well understood APIs,
well understood capabilities.
All of the hosting technologies that we provide are
based on standards, but even that you don't need to use.
You can use your own hosting technologies
if you have a different one
but the ones we provide are all standard phase, HTTP,
RSS, Podcast file formats, QuickTime streaming server.
You can use FTP for your file distribution.
iTunes or iTunes U. So you can publish content to any
hosting service you want simply by writing an Xgrid job
that knows how to post to that particular system.
So virtually any shell script can be turned into an
Xgrid job and therefore a Podcast Producer work flow.
If you can script it, it can be
a Podcast Producer work flow.
There are huge developer opportunities inside this system.
Again, this is an idealized picture of what a Podcast
Producer system might look like and we're going to highlight
on this slide where the developer opportunities exist.
The first developer opportunity is your media application.
What if you have customers working inside
your application and they just want
to send it directly to the Podcast Producer server?
Well, your application can wrap the pcast tool.
Very simple, very straightforward.
The second opportunity is custom work flows and tools.
Apple's not going to provide all the processing
tools that you can possibly conceive of.
There'll be a huge opportunity here for both custom and
professionally developed command line tools to be added
to the Podcast Producer system and
then integrated into a work flow.
And the final integration opportunity is your application
or service as a hosting technology or a destination.
In this case, your application service might
be a tape library that archives all the video,
so just don't think about end users consuming the content.
You might be the archive system that you
provide to people deploying Podcast Producer.
So let's talk a little more about direct content submission.
During the video capture phase, Podcast
Producer's not actually streaming the video.
In the demos that you saw at the stage the video
was being copied to the Mac Mini's hard drive.
It's not live streaming.
Only after Nathan finished the video was the file copied.
This architecturally means that submitting a video
to the Podcast Producer system, whether it be live
or a final result from Final Cut Pro is identical.
We can process heavily edited content just as well as we can
process extemporaneous content that's been captured live.
So, all you need is a movie file and you can submit
to Podcast Producer and use the work flows to take
that movie file through the last stages of production.
There's lots of opportunity here for direct
integration with any media application.
So, application writers can simply wrap the pcast command
line tool in their application for direct submission.
In fact, if you have QuickTime Pro and a QuickTime
Pro key, QuickTime player can directly submit
to Podcast Producer a movie that it's viewing in its window
and we ourselves use the pcast
tool and the QuickTime player.
So, pcast and its set of operations allow you to build Podcast
Producer into your application so the customers don't have
to exit your application, use the pcast
capture application and lose work flow context.
So, here's a sample of QuickTime Player which is in
Leopard and Podcast Producer is now in the sharing menu
of QuickTime Player if you have the Pro key enabled.
You log on using the same name and
password as you would in the capture app.
After logging in you'll be presented to the list
of work flows and the title and description.
All of this can be done with pcast
capture app, the pcast command line tool.
The opportunity for new work flow tools is perhaps the
most exciting to me other than the direct integration.
We've had some enormously creative ideas presented
to us about what people want work flows to do.
The most interesting one is someone wants the video to be
processed for facial recognition and generate a transcript
of everybody that, everybody that was present in the video.
So work flows are just Xgrid job templates.
Xgrid jobs seem specify UNIX command line tools to execute.
If you can write a UNIX command line tool to
process some video to do something useful,
it can be part of a work flow for Podcast Producer.
Any valid UNIX command line tool.
Any valid UNIX command line or tool.
Or Perl script.
You have a Perl script that knows how
to post to your content management system
that can be the last step in your
Podcast Producer work flow.
There will be a market for additional work flow tools that
offer capabilities beyond the standard set that we ship with.
And different encoding options, publishing locations,
reporting tools to report billing information,
these are all huge opportunities that you
can come in and use our platform to deploy.
So the possibilities of both are endless,
absolutely endless for this system.
Anything you can conceive of can be run as a work flow.
New work flows.
Some people may not want to go to
the trouble to write a work flow.
They can be very simple or very complex.
We see an opportunity for canned
work flows that are much more complex
than the simple ones we're shipping with the product.
Apple's going to ship 12 standard work flows.
These are great sample code.
I encourage you to review them, look
at them, use them as a place to start,
but it's very likely customers will
need to enhance these work flows.
Work flows are actually software and like all
pieces of software they can always be better,
they can always be faster, they can always be more complex,
and we fully support adding a new work
flow to the Podcast Producer system.
So, customers who want enhanced work flows
that perform more complex tasks or operations.
I think the ideal combination of a product would be,
here's my work flow tool that does something on the grid
and here's a set of example work
flows that show you how to use it
and ship that as a bundle, but you
can package it any way you want.
So, we provide the platform and customers
and third parties will provide the solutions.
So, standard video extensions.
All the video that our work flows use use QuickTime
and Quartz Composer to process all the video.
So, everything's processed so usually they're using
QuickTime APIs or the Quartz Composer Image Composting APIs.
QuickTime, as you all know, provides the industry
leading set of video and audio media manipulation APIs.
It's universal.
It's supported on a wide variety of platforms, so anything
you can do with QuickTime can be done with Podcast Producer.
Quartz Composer is really neat.
How many of you attended the Quartz
Composer presentation yesterday?
Anything you can do with Quartz Composer I can
apply to a frame of a video as part of a work flow.
So, we have a new tool called qc2movie and qc2movie's
a powerful new command line tool shipping with Leopard.
This tool is used by the Podcast Producer work flows.
The intro and exit videos that you saw and the titling
and the watermark was all done using qc2movie.
The tool takes two inputs.
It takes a movie file, which can be any valid QuickTime
Movie file and Quartz Composer effects with parameters.
The result is a movie with Quartz Composer effect
applied to every frame of the video, therefore,
anything you can conceive of or hire an artist to do
with Quartz Composer can now be done to your movie file.
The watermark that we did was a static watermark,
but Quartz Composer's a dynamic description language.
Picture an animated watermark being added
to the first 15 seconds of your movie
to brand your videos as it goes out on the web.
So anything you can do in Quartz Composer,
transitions, filters, video effects,
or simple art work adjustments can be done using
Quartz Composer using the qc2movie tool as part
of your work flow and you can, you, too, can create
professional video, professional looking videos.
Non-programmers can use Quartz Composer to create
the composition so this means you can hire an artist,
have them use Quartz Composer and have them do what they
do best, which is art work, and then you can integrate
that into your work flow after they
produce the Quartz Composer composition.
So, in summary what I'd like to go over are
the developer opportunities one more time.
We have three unique integration points, but
there's probably more, but the ones we're calling
out are your application directly submitting to Podcast
Producer, enhancing our work flow platform by adding tools
and sample work flows or custom work flows for certain
customer segments, and providing alternative location
such as tape storage or other things for final destinations
for the results that are being processed on the cluster.
I'd like to bring Kjell up for the requisite one
more thing demo and this is very, very slick.
Thank you.
( Applause )
>> Hi again.
So, as Dave said, the Quartz Composer's really
awesome and we can really do some amazing things
with Quartz Composer with Podcast Producer.
As I was trying to think of some really cool, real cool idea
for a demo and I was looking back at some presentations,
some other podcasts, and I looked at a Keynote
from last year and I saw at some point there is,
you'd have a little video at the bottom where you
had Steve and then you have it slides up at in kind
of like a main screen, kind of like an iChat Theatre thing.
That's kinda cool.
You might want to have like a professor in the little
box in the bottom and then have your slides in the top.
So, I wrote a little QC composition here that I'd
like to show you and you'll recognize the slides.
So first we'll hide the little
composition in the back here, but,
take the viewer here you can see
I've got picture in picture.
So here I have two movies and I'm playing back that
we recorded previously and I have the slides here
that are changing and I have my little picture in picture.
So this is pretty cool.
But we can do so much more with Quartz Composer.
So, it's great to have the slides and the main screen all
the time, but sometimes they stay the same a very long time,
so wouldn't it be cool if we could
actually like just bring up the presenter?
So I added a little transition.
So, here it's, with the mouse, so if
I just click on the mouse here, boom,
we've got the presenter in the main screen.
( Applause )
So, that's cool, but the problem is this
is being processed on the grid, right?
So, I can't be on the grid clicking each time I want the
transition to happen, so what I did is I wrote another patch
which will add automatically detect when the slides change
and if the slides stay the same for let's say five seconds,
then it'll put he presenter in the main screen
and then if the slides change again, well,
it'll bring the slides back into the main screen.
So let me show you that.
So here you can see that I have in the middle my
mouse detector down here, so let me zoom in on that.
So here's where I'm detecting the mouse click.
So, I'm going to take my slides movie here.
I'm just going to put it into, the input to my auto slide
detection patch here and I'm going to take this input
and just replace where the mouse
was and now I will bring this back.
We'll make this a bit bigger so
everybody can see it and I will step back.
So, I'm not clicking anymore and you will
see here the slide, the first slide is less
than five seconds, so it's not going to change.
This one is a bit longer, so we'll wait about five
seconds until you can see the slide real nice.
There it changes all by itself.
( Applause )
And wait. Slide change.
Brings the slides back.
( Applause )
Same thing, slide sits more than five seconds, it goes
back and one last time, because I really like this thing.
There you go.
( Applause )
So, that's in Quartz Composer.
So Quartz Composer has the video.
Ah ha, the power of Quartz Composer.
>> Welcome to Bio 202, Human Anatomy.
Today we'll talk about the structure of the brain.
The brain's covered by three layers.
The dura mater, the arachnoid mater,
and the pia mater.
All three layers are composed differently
and are crucial for protecting the brain.
At a bird's eye view we can say the
brain is made up of four different lobes.
These lobes all have different purposes from sensory
perception to memory and to language generation.
In this slide you can see the layout
of the four different lobes.
Next week we'll talk about gray
matter, white matter, and neurons.
See you then.
>> It's just to give you a quick example
of what you can do with Quartz Composer.
( Applause )
Back to you, Dave.
>> Thank you.
( Applause )
Back to the slide machines, please.
Quartz Composer blows my mind.
I'm a server guy.
I do network bits.
I do security.
I do network administration.
We're learning about Quartz Composer and I'm
sure someone more familiar, shall we say,
in the creative arts with Quartz
Composer and Podcast Producer,
the sorts of videos that could be automatically
produced through your work flows are phenomenal and,
I want to thank Kjell and the team for
pulling that simple demo together.
But that's just scratching the surface
of what you can do with Quartz Composer.
So, in summation, Podcast Producer, we feel, is
the most powerful set of technologies ever, ever,
ever shipped that allows your site to ingest, process,
and automatically publish podcasts without you having
to click on the mouse to do the video switching.
Because of the design of Podcast
Producer system, you can scale it.
You can scale it to process more videos at once.
You can scale to store more video.
You can scale it to have the systems that you're
posting to scale so that when 15,000 students all try
to download a video at once, the
vast majority of them succeed.
The use of Xgrid allows infinite
freedom in work flow definition.
There is no proprietary work flow format here.
There's just Xgrid jobs and Xgrid jobs can
execute any legitimate UNIX command line script.
You can use Podcast Producer to
process statistical data if you want.
You don't have to process videos,
but it's most powerful for that.
And Quartz Composer and QuickTime offering image processing
platform that I think is unparalleled in the industry
from the point of view of automatically
processing video and producing results.
And, Leopard Desktop and Server comes
with everything you need, so you can take,
and it's on your Leopard Server DVD and your Leopard.
You can take Leopard today, begin setting up your
trial systems, and building experience with this system
so that you can come up with a roll out plan for when
you're going to start using this at your actual site.
There are some related sessions that I'd like to go through.
The most important related session is the
next one, which is Deploying Podcast Producer,
for which we'll go into even greater
detail and some much more impressive demos
about what you can do with Podcast Producer.
Other sessions that might interest you are Integrating
Rich Content Publishing and Infrastructure into iTunes U,
since that might be a likely destination.
For many of the videos processed by
this system, that's today at 3:30.
And Introducing Xsan 2.
We feel like Xsan 2 is the best
file system to use for the grid.
It's the highest performance, most scalable file system you
can have for the Xgrid system that's processing the system,
so we might want to learn about the feature sets of Xsan 2
if you're thinking about deploying a system like this.
For more information, you can contact
the server and technology group.